---
layout: post
title: 101 Ways to Say NO to SysAdmin Requests
date: '2020-07-24 18:01:34 +0000'
categories:
- MSSQL
- SQL MVP
tags:
- data security
- MSSQL
---

<p>As an admin, you often get requests from developers asking for elevated permissions on servers and systems. Inside of SQL Server, this is called '<a aria-label="undefined (opens in a new tab)" href="https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/relational-databases/security/authentication-access/server-level-roles?view=sql-server-ver15" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer noopener">sysadmin</a>' access. As you can imagine, it is not a good idea to give this level of access to just anyone. </p>   <p>I thought I would write a post to help you find a way to decline such requests. Because let's face it, when a developer asks for sysadmin access, they are asking if they can go all the way with your database.</p>   <p>So, here they are. As always, you’re welcome.</p>   <p></p>   <ol><li>No</li><li>I'll let you know later</li><li>How about a pizza instead?</li><li>You're not ready</li><li>It's late on a Friday</li><li>I don't do sysadmin</li><li>I don't like you</li><li>I have to go now</li><li>You're just using me</li><li>I'd rather you rub my shoulders</li><li>I can't fix what you'll break</li><li>I'm afraid you'll do something stupid</li><li>This isn't what I had in mind</li><li>I know your reputation</li><li>Let's stop working together for a while</li><li>If you respected me, you wouldn't ask</li><li>I'll get caught</li><li>Is that all you think about?</li><li>I'm allergic to sysadmin</li><li>You'll let everyone use it</li><li>My keyboard is too loud</li><li>It's not worth it</li><li>I'm waiting for the right developer</li><li>It's against my religion</li><li>My boss will kill me</li><li>Let's get something to eat</li><li>I want us to be friends</li><li>I said no and I mean it</li><li>You're too young too handle the admin</li><li>Don't ask me to make this choice</li><li>The sysadmin system is down</li><li>Sysadmin can be more trouble than its worth</li><li>Not everybody has sysadmin, I don't</li><li>With all this ransomware going around?</li><li>Don't make me laugh</li><li>I don't like fixing your mistakes</li><li>I don't just grant sysadmin</li><li>I just got the server built</li><li>Shhh. I think I hear your boss</li><li>We can find other ways for you to screw things up</li><li>If I do, you'll leave an RDP session connected</li><li>My boss is waiting for our 1-on-1</li><li>I've got real work to do</li><li>If I do that now, you will ruin things later</li><li>I don't know you well enough</li><li>I can't remember my password</li><li>I want you to leave</li><li>I'd rather watch Love Island</li><li>Have you thought about the consequences?</li><li>I think my manager is calling</li><li>I don't want to</li><li>People will think I'm "easy"</li><li>Go away</li><li>I don't know what other systems you have touched</li><li>I want us to stop working together</li><li>Maybe later</li><li>I'll show myself out</li><li>Support isn't just about being sysadmin</li><li>It's not what I want to do</li><li>My favorite podcast just dropped</li><li>I thought you were different</li><li>My therapist said not to</li><li>I just quit</li><li>I want that server to stay clean</li><li>I have to go to the toilet</li><li>It's past quitting time</li><li>It's against my strongly held values</li><li>I'm too busy</li><li>Ask me again in five months</li><li>You ignore my advice all the time</li><li>I want to keep my career</li><li>Thanks anyway</li><li>I'm not ready for that type of commitment</li><li>We won't respect each other later</li><li>Let's ask the auditors</li><li>I have an early meeting</li><li>I'm not sure you're the right person</li><li>Not today</li><li>I don't want that kind of pressure</li><li>My teammates will be here any minute</li><li>I don't want our relationship to just be about sysadmin access</li><li>That's a no from me</li><li>Not in a million years</li><li>Downvoted</li><li>Did you say something?</li><li>Go home, you're drunk</li><li>We should get to know each other first</li><li>I want to, but I can't</li><li>Waiting will make it better when you do get sysadmin access</li><li>Quit asking, it's getting annoying</li><li>I have a webinar to attend</li><li>I don't like doing what other people are doing</li><li>It's too risky</li><li>My CIO trusts me, and I don't want to break that trust</li><li>It just doesn't feel like the right time</li><li>I have a bad feeling about this</li><li>I don't trust you</li><li>That's funny</li><li>No, that's my final answer</li><li>The other devs will want it, too</li><li>How about we cuddle instead?</li></ol>